Potion Crafting and Gathering
A Supplementary Guide to DnD 5e for Expanded Features of the Alchemy, Herbology
and Poison Kits
1

-- 1 of 24 --

Recipes
Using a Recipe
An asterisk (*) next to a recipe means that the item is not
an official item in D&D, and is considered playtest material
and subject to change. The cost of a recipe includes any
mundane ingredients and equipment, which are assumed
to be included with the appropriate tool. Ingredients
specifically listed are considered to be 1 unit (such as
flowers, bunches, or vials) unless otherwise specified.
Starting recipes
When you gain a tool proficiency, you learn 3 Common
recipes associated with the tool.
Developing new Recipes
When your proficiency bonus increases, you can add a
new recipe to your recipes known. This recipe must be of
an appropriate level or lower, as indicated by the
Discovering Recipes Table below. If the player gets a
higher proficiency bonus, they can instantly learn a new
recipe without any cost.
Proficiency Bonus 	Recipe Level
+2 	Common (3)
+3 	Uncommon
+4 	Uncommon
+5 	Rare
+6 	Very Rare
Learning new Recipes
When you come across a new recipe, you add it to your
recipes known. Doing so requires time and money spent in
experimentation, as indicated by the Learning Recipes
Table below.
Recipe Level 	Time 	Cost
Common (3) 	1 workday 	50 gp
Uncommon 	5 workdays 	250 gp
Rare 	10 workdays 	500 gp
Very Rare 	30 workdays 	1000 gp
2

-- 2 of 24 --

Alchemist's Supplies
Using Alchemist's Supplies
Proficiency with alchemist's supplies allows you to produce
useful concoctions, such as potions and oils.
Contents
Alchemist's supplies include two glass beakers, a metal
frame to hold a beaker in place over an open flame, a
glass stirring rod, a small mortar and pestle, and a pouch
of common alchemical ingredients including salt, distilled
alcohol, powdered iron, and purified water.
Skill Checks
If you have proficiency in alchemist's supplies, you can use
your tool proficiency to give yourself advantage on certain
skill checks.
Arcana
Proficiency with alchemist's supplies allows you to unlock
more information on Arcana checks involving potions and
similar materials.
Investigation
When you inspect an area for clues, proficiency with
alchemist's supplies grants additional insight into any
chemicals or other substances that might have been used
in the area.
Crafting Potions & Alchemical
Concoctions
Common Recipes (DC 10)
Creation of these items costs 25 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 1 workday of time.
Alchemist's Fire
This sticky, adhesive fluid ignites when exposed to air. As
an action, you can throw this flask up to 20 feet, shattering
it on impact. Make a ranged Attack against a creature or
object, treating the alchemist's fire as an improvised
weapon.
On a hit, the target takes 1d4 fire damage at the start of
each of its turns. A creature can end this damage by using
its action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to extinguish
the flames.
Ingredients: Fire Elemental Ember, Flask of Oil
Smokebomb
As an action, you can throw this smokebomb up to 30 feet
away from you. On impact, smoke begins to billow from it,
creating a heavily obscured area within a 10 foot radius
and a lightly obscured area for a further 5 feet. This smoke
dissipates after 1 minute, or until it is blown away by some
external means.
Ingredients: Air Elemental Whisp, ashblossom
Ink
Used in writing.
Ingredients: Charcoal
Blasting Powder
This volatile alchemical powder comes in a small pouch.
When ignited by an open flame or a fuse, the powder
explodes. Each creature within 5 feet of the exploding
pouch must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking
3d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
A character can bind multiple pouches of blasting
powder together so they explode at the same time. Each
additional pouch increases the damage by 1d6 (maximum
of 10d6) and the blast radius by 5 feet (maximum of 20
feet).
Ingredients: Ashblossom, Charcoal
Potion of Climbing
When you drink this potion, you gain a climbing speed
equal to your walking speed for 1 hour. During this time,
you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks you
make to climb. The potion is separated into brown, silver,
and gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the
bottle fails to mix the colors.
Ingredients: Giant Wolf Spider Hair, Earth Elemental
Dust
Potion of Swimming *
When you drink this potion, you gain a swimming speed
equal to your walking speed for 1 hour. During this time,
you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks you
make to swim. The potion is separated into teal, light blue,
and indigo layers resembling a deep ocean. Shaking the
bottle fails to mix the colors.
Ingredients: Quipper Scale (x3), Water Elemental Droplet
Soothsalts
Soothsalts are derived from a naturally occurring
crystalline. Soothsalts are consumed orally in lozenge-
sized doses, and frequent users can be identified by the
telltale crimson stain around their mouths. A creature
subjected to a dose of soothsalts gains advantage on all
Intelligence checks for 1d4 hours.
For each dose of soothsalts consumed, the creature
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or
gain one level of exhaustion—an effect which is
cumulative with multiple doses.
Ingredients: Soothsalt Geode
Vial of Acid
As an action, you can splash the contents of this vial onto a
creature within 5 feet of you or throw the vial up to 20
feet, shattering it on impact. In either case, make a ranged
Attack against a creature or object, treating the acid as an
improvised weapon. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 acid
damage.
Ingredients: Gray Ooze Residue, Crawler Mucus
3

-- 3 of 24 --

Uncommon Recipes (DC 15)
Creation of these items costs 100 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 3 workdays of time.
Ink (Rare)
Used in writing: Sufficient for Lvl. 1-5 spell writing.
Ingredients: Charcoal, finely ground iron
Oil of Slipperiness
This sticky black unguent is thick and heavy in the
container, but it flows quickly when poured. The oil can
cover a Medium or smaller creature, along with the
equipment it's wearing and carrying (one additional vial is
required for each size category above Medium).
Applying the oil takes 10 minutes. The affected creature
then gains the effect of a freedom of movement spell for 8
hours. Alternatively, the oil can be poured on the ground
as an action, where it covers a 10-foot square, duplicating
the effect of the grease spell in that area for 8 hours.
Ingredients: Flask of Oil, Crawler mucus, Amphibian
Saliva
Potion of Animal Friendship
When you drink this potion, you can cast the animal
friendship spell (save DC 13) for 1 hour at will. Agitating
this muddy liquid brings little bits into view: a fish scale, a
hummingbird tongue, a cat claw, or a squirrel hair.
Ingredients: Cat’s tongue, Quipper Scale
Potion of Fire Breath
After drinking this potion, you can use a bonus action to
exhale fire at a target within 30 feet of you. The target
must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one. The effect ends after you exhale the fire
three times or when 1 hour has passed. This potion's
orange liquid flickers, and smoke fills the top of the
container and wafts out whenever it is opened.
Ingredients: Ashblossom, Remorhaz Ichor
Potion of Growth
When you drink this potion, you gain the "enlarge" effect
of the enlarge/reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no
concentration required). The red in the potion's liquid
continuously expands from a tiny bead to color the clear
liquid around it and then contracts. Shaking the bottle fails
to interrupt this process.
Ingredients: Sourgrass, Rowan berry, Giant Wolf Spider
Hair
Potion of Giant Strength
When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes
for 1 hour. The type of giant determines the score. The
potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or
greater than that score. This potion's transparent liquid
has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the
appropriate type.
Ingredients: Frost Lichen, a sliver of fingernail from a
corresponding giant
Giant Type 	Strength Score
Hill 	21
Frost or Stone 	23
Fire 	25
Cloud 	27
Storm 	29
Potion of Resistance
When you drink this potion, you gain resistance to one
type of damage for 1 hour. The damage type depends on
the special ingredient added.
Ingredients: Hagfinger, plus a special ingredient
Damage Type 	Ingredient
Acid 	Crawler Mucus
Cold 	Frost Lichen
Fire 	Ashblossom
Force 	Amphibian Saliva
Lightning 	Lightning Moss
Necrotic 	Nightshade
Poison 	Rowanberry
Psychic 	Mindflayer Stinkhorn
Radiant 	Sourgrass
Thunder 	Singing Nettle
Potion of Waterbreathing
You can breathe underwater for 1 hour after drinking this
potion. Its cloudy green fluid smells of the sea and has a
jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.
Ingredients: Gillyweed, Hagfinger
Rare Recipes (DC 20)
Creation of these items costs 500 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 10 workdays of time.
Ink (Very Rare)
Used in writing. Sufficient for Lvl. 6-8 spell writing.
Ingredients: Charcoal, finely ground iron, Willowshade
Fruit
4

-- 4 of 24 --

Invisible Ink
Ink that can only be made visible with spells, traits or items
that see the invisible, or by applying a mild acid.
Ingredients: Pixie's Parasol, Ink
Midnight Oil*
A small flask of inky black oil that resembles a night sky
when viewed in a certain light. When the midnight oil is
used to light a lantern, it emits bright light for 5 feet and
dim light a further 5 feet for 8 hours. If a creature stays in
the light emitted by this oil for the full 8 hours, they get all
the benefits of a long rest without needing to sleep,
provided they only engage in light activity such as reading,
studying, talking, etc.
Ingredients: Flask of Oil, Pixie's Parasol
Oil of Dragon's Bane
This oil can coat a single weapon for 3 uses, or up to 3
pieces of ammunition can be dipped in the oil for 1 use
each. A dragon that takes damage from a weapon or piece
of ammunition covered in the oil takes an additional 6d6
damage from the attack. The oil dries after 1 hour and
becomes inert.
Ingredients: Dragon's Blood, Wyvern Poison
Potion of Gaseous Form
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the
gaseous form spell for 1 hour (no concentration required)
or until you end the effect as a bonus action. This potion's
container seems to hold fog that moves and pours like
water.
Ingredients: Ectoplasm, Singing Nettle
Oil of Etherealness
Beads of this cloudy gray oil form on the outside of its
container and quickly evaporate. The oil can cover a
Medium or smaller creature, along with the equipment it's
wearing and carrying (one additional vial is required for
each size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes
10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the effect of
the etherealness spell for 1 hour.
Ingredients: Ectoplasm, Flask of Oil
Potion of Clairvoyance
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the
clairvoyance spell. An eyeball bobs in this yellowish liquid
but vanishes when the potion is opened.
Ingredients: Morning Dew, Mandrake Root
Potion of Diminution
When you drink this potion, you gain the "reduce" effect of
the enlarge/reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no concentration
required). The red in the potion's liquid continuously
contracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the
clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt
this process.
Ingredients: Pixie's Parasol, Moonstalker
Potion of Heroism
For 1 hour after drinking it, you gain 10 temporary hit
points that last for 1 hour. For the same duration, you are
under the effect of the bless spell (no concentration
required). This blue potion bubbles and steams as if
boiling.
Ingredients: Hagfinger, Cat’s Tongue
Potion of Invulnerability
For 1 minute after you drink this potion, you have
Resistance to all damage. The potion's syrupy liquid looks
like liquefied iron.
Ingredients: A piece of metal struck by lightning
Potion of Mind Reading
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the
detect thoughts spell (save DC 13). The potion's dense,
purple liquid has an ovoid cloud of pink floating in it.
Ingredients: Mindflayer Stinkhorn, Moonstalker
Very Rare Recipes (DC 25)
Creation of these items costs 1,000 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 30 workdays of time.
Ink (Legendary)
Used in writing. Sufficient for Lvl. 9 spell writing.
Ingredients: Charcoal, finely ground iron, Willowshade
Oil (3)
Oil of Sharpness
This clear, gelatinous oil sparkles with tiny, ultrathin silver
shards. The oil can coat one slashing or piercing weapon
or up to 5 pieces of slashing or piercing ammunition.
Applying the oil takes 1 minute. For 1 hour, the coated
item is magical and has a +3 bonus to attack and damage
rolls.
Ingredients: Ankheg Ichor, Silverthorn
5

-- 5 of 24 --

Potion of Flying
When you drink this potion, you gain a flying speed equal
to your walking speed for 1 hour and can hover. If you're
in the air when the potion wears off, you fall unless you
have some other means of staying aloft. This potion's clear
liquid floats at the top of its container and has cloudy
white impurities drifting in it.
Ingredients: Air Elemental Whisp, Singing Nettle
Potion of Invisibility
This potion's container looks empty but feels as though it
holds liquid. When you drink it, you become invisible for 1
hour. Anything you wear or carry is invisible with you. The
effect ends early if you attack or cast a spell.
Ingredients: Skulk fingernail, Fairy Stool
Potion of Longevity
When you drink this potion, your physical age is reduced
by 1d6 + 6 years, to a minimum of 13 years. Each time you
subsequently drink a potion of longevity, there is 10
percent cumulative chance that you instead age by 1d6 + 6
years. Suspended in this amber liquid are a scorpion's tail,
an adder's fang, a dead spider, and a tiny heart that,
against all reason, is still beating. These ingredients vanish
when the potion is opened.
Ingredients: Imp Heart, Red Amanita Mushroom
Potion of Speed
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the
haste spell for 1 minute (no concentration required). The
potion's yellow fluid is streaked with black and swirls on its
own.
Ingredients: Eagle’s claw (4), Lightning Moss, Sugar
Potion of Truesight *
When you drink this potion, you gain truesight for 1 hour.
Ingredients: Fairy Stool, Nothic Tears
6

-- 6 of 24 --

Herbalism Kit
Using Herbalism Kits
Proficiency with an herbalism kit allows you to identify
both magical and nonmagical plants and safely collect
their useful elements, and to create healing salves,
potions, and tinctures.
Contents
An herbalism kit includes three pouches to store herbs,
clippers and leather gloves for collecting plants, a mortar
and pestle, and five glass jars.
Skill Checks
If you have proficiency in herbalism kits, you can use your
tool proficiency to give yourself advantage on certain skill
checks.
Arcana
Your knowledge of nature and uses of herbs can add
insight to your magical studies that deal with plant
creatures and your attempts to identify potions.
Investigation
When you inspect an area overgrown with plants, your
proficiency bonus can help you pick out details and clues
that others might miss.
Medicine
Your mastery of herbalism improves your ability to treat
illnesses and wounds by augmenting your methods of care
with medicinal plants.
Nature and Survival
You can identify most plants with a quick inspection of
their appearance, smell, and their surrounding
environment.
Crafting Salves, Potions, & Tinctures
To create any of the following items, an herbalism kit must
be used. Proficiency in herbalism kits allows you to add
your proficiency bonus to checks to their creation.
Common Recipes (DC 10)
Creation of these items costs 25 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 1 workday of time.
Antitoxin
A creature that drinks this vial of liquid gains advantage on
saving throws against poison for 1 hour. It confers no
benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Rowan Berries, Cat’s Tongue
Potion of Healing
You regain 2d4 + 2 hit points when you drink this potion.
The potion's red liquid glimmers when agitated. It confers
no benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Red Amanita Mushroom
Soothing Salve *
A sticky, sour smelling salve that can be applied to
wounds. When you expend hit dice to recover hit points
while using this salve, you recover an additional 3 hit
points for each hit die expended. This effect lasts for 1
hour after applied.
Ingredients: Sourgrass, Gillyweed
Muroosa Balm
This paste made from the muroosa bush is known to help
prevent sunburn, but it is also a fire retardant. After
spending 1 minute applying a quarter pint of muroosa
balm to your skin, you gain resistance against fire damage
for 1 hour.
Ingredients: Flask of Oil, Muroosa twigs
Willowshade Oil
A dark blue oil can be extracted from the fruit of the
Willowshade plant. A creature can use its action to apply
the oil to another creature that has been petrified for less
than 1 minute, causing the petrified condition on that
creature to end at the start of what would be that
creature’s next turn.
Ingredients: Willowshade Fruit
Uncommon Recipes (DC 15)
Creation of these items costs 100 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 3 workdays of time.
Blight Ichor
This bitter chartreuse concoction is distilled from a fungus
native to the Blightshore badlands. The sickly green
liqueur harbors potent psychedelic properties. Provided it
is neither a construct nor undead, a creature subjected to
a dose of blight ichor gains advantage on Intelligence and
Wisdom checks, as well as vulnerability to psychic damage,
for 1 hour.
For each dose of blight ichor consumed, the creature
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or
become poisoned for 1d6 hours and suffer the effects of a
confusion spell for 1 minute. An undead creature
subjected to a dose of blight ichor gains advantage on all
Dexterity checks and is immune to the frightened
condition for 1 hour.
Ingredients: Blight spores
7

-- 7 of 24 --

Pomander of Warding *
This ball of aromatic spices and perfumes fills an area with
a 15 foot radius with a strong scent for 24 hours after
being unwrapped. Undead creatures of CR 2 or lower that
enter this area must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 15)
or be turned, as detailed in the Turn Undead cleric feature.
Ingredients: Hagfinger
Potion of Greater Healing
You regain 4d4 + 4 hit points when you drink this potion.
The potion's red liquid glimmers when agitated. It confers
no benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Red Amanita Mushroom (2)
Tea of Refreshment *
This warm drink removes one level of exhaustion from
whoever drinks it.
Ingredients: Morning Dew, Cat's Tongue
Rare Recipes (DC 20)
Creation of these items costs 500 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 10 workdays of time.
Elixir of Health
When you drink this potion, it cures any disease afflicting
you, and it removes the blinded, deafened, paralyzed, and
poisoned conditions. The clear red liquid has tiny bubbles
of light in it. It confers no benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Fairy Stool, Gillyweed
Potion of Superior Healing
You regain 8d4 + 8 hit points when you drink this potion.
The potion's red liquid glimmers when agitated. It confers
no benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Red Amanita Mushroom (3)
Tincture of Werewolf's Bane *
Any lycanthrope that drinks this tincture must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
lycanthrope takes 3d10 necrotic damage and must change
to its humanoid form if it was not already in that form,
after which the lycanthrope cannot change form for 24
hours. On a success, the lycanthrope takes half that
damage and is not under any additional effects.
Ingredients: Wolfsbane, Silverthorn
Very Rare Recipes (DC 25)
Creation of these items costs 1,000 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 30 workdays of time.
Potion of Supreme Healing
You regain 10d4 + 20 hit points when you drink this
potion. The potion's red liquid glimmers when agitated. It
confers no benefit to undead or constructs.
Ingredients: Red Amanita Mushroom (4)
Potion of Vitality
When you drink this potion, it removes any exhaustion you
are suffering and cures any disease or poison affecting
you. For the next 24 hours, you regain the maximum
number of hit points for any Hit Die you spend. The
potion's crimson liquid regularly pulses with dull light,
calling to mind a heartbeat.
Ingredients: Morning Dew (2), Cat’s Tongue (2), Olisuba
Leaf
8

-- 8 of 24 --

Poisoner's Kit
Using Poisoner's Kits
Proficiency with a poisoner's kit allows you to create
poisons from various materials and handle them without
risking exposing yourself to their harmful effects.
Contents
A poisoner's kit includes 5 glass vials, a mortar and pestle,
various common chemicals, and a glass stirring rod.
Skill Checks
If you have proficiency in poisoner's kits, you can use your
tool proficiency to give yourself advantage on certain skill
checks.
History
Your training in poisons can help you when you try to
recall facts about infamous poisonings. Investigation and
Perception Your knowledge of poisons has taught you to
handle those substances carefully, giving an edge when
you inspect poisoned objects or try to extract clues from
events that involve poisons.
Medicine
When you treat the victim of a poison, your knowledge
grants you insight into how to provide the best care to
your patient.
Nature and Survival
Working with poisons enables you to acquire lore about
which plants and animals are poisonous.
Crafting Poisons
Common Recipes (DC 10)
Creation of these items costs 25 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 1 workday of time.
Basic Poison
You can use the poison in this vial to coat one slashing or
piercing weapon or up to three pieces of ammunition.
Applying the poison takes an action. A creature hit by the
Poisoned weapon or ammunition must make a DC 10
Constitution saving throw or take 1d4 poison damage.
Once applied, the poison retains potency for 1 minute
before drying.
Type: Injury
Ingredients: Nightshade
Liquid Paranoia *
A creature who ingests this poison is inflicted with the
frightened condition, with the source of fear being the
next humanoid it sees within 5 minutes of ingestion. This
fear lasts for 1 hour on a failed Wisdom saving throw (DC
15) or half as long on a success.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Moonstalker
Uncommon Recipes (DC 15)
Creation of these items costs 100 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 3 workdays of time.
Assassin’s Blood
A creature subjected to this poison must make a DC 10
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 6
(1d12) poison damage and is Poisoned for 24 hours. On a
successful save, the creature takes half damage and isn’t
Poisoned.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Basic Poison, Moonshade
Black Paste
This poison was specifically designed to resemble leather
or boot polish. If a piece of clothing is treated with this
poison, it shines like new and forces creatures that wears
it for 12 hours or more to make a DC 15 constitution
saving throw. Upon a failed save, the creature receives 1d8
poison damage. Unless the poisoned piece of clothing is
removed, the creature will have to repeat making the
saving throw every 12 hours for the next 3 months.
Type: Contact via clothing
Ingredients: Black Cap Mushroom, Black Sap
9

-- 9 of 24 --

Malice
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1
hour. The poisoned creature is blinded.
These poisons are powders or gases that take effect
when inhaled. Blowing the powder or releasing the gas
subjects creatures in a 5-foot cube to its effect. The
resulting cloud dissipates immediately afterward. Holding
one's breath is ineffective against inhaled poisons, as they
affect nasal membranes, tear ducts, and other parts of the
body.
Type: Inhaled
Ingredients: Morning Dew, Black Sap
Pale Tincture
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
16 Constitution saving throw or take 3 (1d6) poison
damage and become poisoned. The poisoned creature
must repeat the saving throw every 24 hours, taking 3
(1d6) poison damage on a failed save. Until this poison
ends, the damage the poison deals can't be healed by any
means. After seven successful saving throws, the effect
ends and the creature can heal normally.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Black Sap, Death Cap
Philter of Love
The next time you see a creature within 10 minutes after
drinking this philter, you become charmed by that
creature for 1 hour. If the creature is of a species and
gender you are normally attracted to, you regard it as your
true love while you are charmed. This potion's rose-hued,
effervescent liquid contains one easy-to-miss bubble
shaped like a heart.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Fairy Stool, Serpent’s Venom
Potion of Poison
This concoction looks, smells, and tastes like a Potion of
Healing or other beneficial potion. However, it is actually
poison masked by illusion magic. An identify spell reveals
its true nature. If you drink it, you take 3d6 poison
damage, and you must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution
saving throw or be poisoned. At the start of each of your
turns while you are poisoned in this way, you take 3d6
poison damage. At the end of each of your turns, you can
repeat the saving throw. On a successful save, the poison
damage you take on your subsequent turns decreases by
1d6. The poison ends when the damage decreases to 0.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Potion of Healing, Dreamlilly
Truth Serum
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
11 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1
hour. The poisoned creature can’t knowingly speak a lie, as
if under the effect of a zone of truth spell.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Fairy Stool, Mindflayer Stinkhorn
Rare Recipes (DC 20)
Creation of these items costs 500 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 10 workdays of time.
Burnt Othur Fumes
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
13 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison
damage, and must repeat the saving throw at the start of
each of its turns. On each successive failed save, the
character takes 3 (1d6) poison damage. After three
successful saves, the poison ends.
Type: Inhaled
Ingredients: Ashblossom, Moonshade
Drow Poison
This poison is typically made only by the drow, and only in
a place far removed from sunlight. A creature subjected to
this poison must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving
throw or be Poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails
by 5 or more, the creature is also Unconscious while
Poisoned in this way. The creature wakes up if it takes
damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it
awake.
Type: Injury
Ingredients: Drider Venom, Mandrake Root
Essence of Ether
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 8
hours. The poisoned creature is unconscious. The creature
wakes up if it takes damage or if another creature takes an
action to shake it awake.
Type: Inhaled
Ingredients: Nightshade, Mandrake Root
Oil of Taggit
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
13 Constitution saving throw or become Poisoned for 24
hours. The Poisoned creature is Unconscious. The creature
wakes up if it takes damage.
Type: Contact
Ingredients: Flask of Oil, Wolfsbane
Torpor
A creature subjected to this poison must succeed on a DC
15 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 4d6
hours. The poisoned creature is incapacitated.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Mandrake Root, Lightning Moss
10

-- 10 of 24 --

Very Rare Recipes (DC 25)
Creation of these items costs 1,000 gp, in addition to the
ingredients listed, and 30 workdays of time.
Midnight Tears
A creature that ingests this poison suffers no effect until
the stroke of midnight. If the poison has not been
neutralized before then, the creature must succeed on a
DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 31 (9d6) poison
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Death Cap, Ankheg ichor
Deathsleep *
A creature that Ingests this poison must succeed at DC 19
Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 24
hours. The poisoned creature appears to be dead, and
only a successful Medicine check (DC 20) can determine
otherwise.
Type: Ingested
Ingredients: Tea of Refreshment, Purple Worm Poison
Water of Death
This liquid looks, smells and tastes like water. Even the
majority of alchemic and magical tests on this liquid
cannot distinguish it from water. Only the spell Identify
cast as a level 7 or higher or detailed alchemic test, lasting
24 hours and costing 300 gp, will reveal that this liquid is
actually one of the deadliest poisons in existence.
Made from rare mushrooms, herbs and poisons, any
contact with this poison forces the subjected creature to
make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature suffers blindness and deafness for 48 hours
and becomes too riddled with pain to move for 24 hours.
The creature’s maximum hitpoints is permanently reduced
by 2d12 and receives 7d10 poison damage after 12 hours.
On a successful save, the creature’s maximum hitpoints is
reduced by 2d12 hitpoints and has blurred vision and
muffled hearing for 24 hours.
The lost maximum hitpoints can only be restored by
healing after ingesting a Potion of Vitality or by a Greater
Restoration or a Regenerate spell cast at level 8 or higher.
Type: Injury, Ingestion
Ingredients: Black Cap Mushroom, Wyvern poison,
Dreamlilly, Hagfinger
11

-- 11 of 24 --

Gathering & Harvesting
Rules for Gathering
Certain areas CAN contain certain harvestable plants, fungi
or, rarely, animals. To determine what good can be found
in areas, make a nature check. If the check is:
≥10 all common plants and fungi bound to that
environment are identified
≥15 all common and uncommon plants and fungi
bound to that environment are identified
≥20 all common, uncommon and rare plants and fungi
bound to that environment are identified
The DM can decide to be more or less lenient depending
on the area, a lush jungle may contain more interesting
herbs and fungi than a windswept dessert, after all.
Inspecting an area to make the nature check takes 30
minutes. If the DM allows it, a +3 can be added to the
check for each additional 30 minutes spent on
investigating the area to a maximum of +6. The player can
repeatedly search an area without repercussions on the
amount of ingredients obtained from an area.
Rules for Harvesting
Once a herb or fungi is identified and the player is
proficient with the herbalism kit, they can throw a d20 and
add their proficiency bonus and their Potion Making Level
modifier (See final page) to that throw to determine if they
can harvest the ingredient. Harvesting an ingredient takes
30 minutes. If the DM allows it, a +3 can be added to the
check for each additional 30 minutes spent on
investigating the area to a maximum of +6. The player
must decide beforehand how long they want to spent on
harvesting the ingredient.
If the player fails to harvest an ingredient, a d4 is
thrown. On a:
1: the ingredient is destroyed
2: the quantity of the ingredient is reduced by half
3: the quantity of the ingredient is reduced by a quarter
4: the ingredient is unaffected
Obtaining animal based ingredients doesn’t require
proficiency with the associated kit, but must have access to
the kit, though doing so provides the player with a -3
modifier instead of the proficiency modifier when the
player is proficient with the kit. If the DM allows it, a +3 can
be added to the check for each additional 30 minutes
spent on harvesting the ingredient to a maximum of +6. A
player is always proficient with a knife.
Attempting to harvest the ingredients can be done only
once, failure results in the destruction of all harvestable
ingredients.
Potion Crafting
When the player has gathered all required potion
ingredients, tools and recipes and decides to make a
certain potion or other product with one of their kits, the
player must spend the required amount of gold (See
below), as well as the number of workdays working on
their project. The workdays don’t have to be subsequent
and can be broken down further into single hours of work,
with each workday is lasting 8 hours.
After the player has spent the required time working on
the potion, they roll a d20, add their proficiency and their
Potion Making Level modifier (See final page) to the total. If
the player makes the check, the product is successfully
completed. If the player fails the check, they are allowed to
recover the ingredients, though lose the gold invested.
Pricing Guide
The total cost of a potion is predetermined. The price of an
ingredient is subtracted from that total depending on the
rarity of that ingredient. All additional costs in gp are
subtracted once potion making is commenced.
If a potion making Check is failed, the original
ingredients are returned, though gold spent is lost.
Ingredient Rarity 	Cost
Common 	5gp
Uncommon 	10gp
Rare 	50gp
Very Rare 	150gp
Legendary 	500gp
12

-- 12 of 24 --

Gatherable Plants & Fungi
Noted below are all fungi and plants that can be collected
Ashblossom
This tiny flower is bright red with a yellow centre, and is
found growing only in hot environments. It deals 1d4 fire
damage when ingested, but it can be used to brew many
fire-related potions by a knowledgeable alchemist.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 blossoms
Location: Deserts, Volcanos
Uses (4): Smokebomb, Potion of Fire Breath, Potion of
Resistance (Fire), Burnt Othur Fumes
Black Cup Mushroom
This beautiful, blue-ish black, cup-shaped mushroom with
an extremely poisonous bite is hard to miss against the
green background of its surroundings, though best left
alone. Touching this fungus without gloves or other
protective gear forces the creature touching it to make a
DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature take 1d10 poison damage.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d4 stalks
Location: Forests, Marshes
Uses (2): Water of Death, Black Paste
Black Sap
This tarry substance harvested from the dark boughs of
the death’s head willow is a powerful intoxicant. It can be
smoked as a concentrate or injected directly into the
bloodstream. A creature subjected to a dose of black sap
cannot be charmed or frightened for 1d6 hours.
For each dose of black sap consumed, a creature must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become
poisoned for 2d4 hours—an effect that is cumulative with
multiple doses.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 doses
Location: Sites of frequent or large scale death
Uses (2): Malice, Pale Tincture
Blight Spores
Bright red spores from Blightshrooms, growing exclusively
in caves on the Blightshore and the Eastern side of the
Penumbra Range. A creature exposed to a large dose of
the spores must succeed a DC 16 Constitution saving
throw or be Poisoned for 3d6 hours. While the creature is
poisoned, it experiences the same effects as if it were
under the Confusion spell. A restoration spell or a dose of
antitoxin can remove the effect.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 doses
Location: Blightshore Caves
Uses (1): Blight Ichor
Cat's Tongue
This mid-sized herbaceous plant has bundles of small, 5
bladed, purple/white flowers that quickly turn and ripen
into fig sized pods. The pods have a slightly toxic outer
shell revealing an inner fruit that has a tard taste and great
nutritional properties.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d4 pods
Location: Grassland, Forests
Uses (5): Potion of Animal Friendship, Potion of Heroism,
Antitoxin, Tea of Refreshment, Potion of Vitality
Death Cap
Though unassuming looking with a slender, white stalk
and white to lightly brown and on rare occasions greenish
head, death cap is anything but harmless. 12 hours after
ingesting the mushroom or an extract of it, a creature
must make a DC 17 constitution saving throw or be
poisoned. Once a creature is poisoned, it takes 2d8 poison
damage and suffers severe stomach aches and cramps
lasting 24 hours. If antidote is not taken during this period,
the creature’s liver starts being degraded resulting in
jaundice and takes 1d10 poison damage at midday until a
Greater Restoration or Regenerate is performed or an
elixir of health is consumed.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d4 heads
Location: Forests, dry areas of Swamps
Uses (2): Midnight Tears, Pale Tincture
Dreamlilly
A white, slightly silvery 5 pointed flower with an
intoxicating smell. It can be soaked in warm water to
create a psychoactive liquid that smells and tastes like
your favorite beverage. A creature under the effects of
dreamlily is poisoned for 1 hour. While poisoned in this
way, the creature is immune to fear, and the first time it
drops to 0 hit points without being killed outright, it drops
to 1 hit point instead
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d6 flowers
Location: Grasslands, Coasts
Uses (1): Potion of Poison
Fairy Stool
This small pink mushroom is most often found in fairy
rings. Ingesting it causes blindness for 1 minute on a failed
Constitution saving throw (DC 20), along with vivid
hallucinations.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 stalks
Location: Feywild, Forests
Uses (5): Potion of Invisibility, Potion of Truesight, Elixer
of Health, Philter of Love, Truth Serum
13

-- 13 of 24 --

Frost Lichen
An eyeblindingly white lichen that grows on rocks in
regions of year long freezing temperatures.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 bunches
Location: Arctic
Uses (2): Potion of Giant's Strength, Potion of Resistance
(Cold)
Gillyweed
This emerald green kelp is found underwater and is always
covered in tiny air bubbles, which makes it easy to spot by
a trained herbalist.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d4 leaves
Location: Coasts, Swamps
Uses (3): Potion of Waterbreathing, Soothing Salve, Elixer
of Health
Hagfinger
These small tubers are a pale, sickly green and resemble
long fingers. When dried and ground up into a powder, it
gives off a strong aroma and can be used as an herbalism
and potion ingredient.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 dried fingers
Location: Forests, Swamps
Uses (4): Potion of Resistance, Potion of Waterbreathing,
Potion of Heroism, Pomander of Warding
Lightning Moss
This light blue moss grows only where lightning has struck
and gives off a faint static electric shock when touched. If
rubbed on the bottom of a creature's feet or pair of shoes,
the creature's speed increases by 5 feet for 1 hour.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 clumps
Location: Coasts, Mountains
Uses (3): Potion of Resistance (Lightning), Torpor, Potion
of Speed
Mandrake Root
This twisted pale root resembles a gnarled humanoid
infant. It inflicts the poisoned condition for 1 hour when
ingested.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 roots
Location: Underground
Uses (4): Potion of Clairvoyance, Drow Posion, Ether of
Essence, Torpor
Mindflayer Stinkhorn
This purple fungus has slimy, tentacle-looking stalks and
smells of rotting flesh. A creature who eats this fungus
must make a Constitution saving throw (DC10). On a
success, the creature can cast detect thoughts at will for 1
hour, requiring no material components. On a failure, the
creature takes 1d6 psychic damage.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 1d4 stalks
Location: Underground
Uses (3): Potion of Resistance (Psychic), Potion of Mind
Reading, Truth Serum
Moonstalker
This pale blue flower grows in pairs and blooms only
during the nighttime, and has an ethereal glow. The flower
sheds dim light for 5 feet when blooming, and is often
mistaken for glowing eyes from a distance.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 1d4 x2 flowers
Location: Coasts, Swamps
Uses (3): Potion of Diminution, Potion of Mind Reading,
Liquid Paranoia
Morning Dew
This plant grows into either a large shrub or small tree and
seems to reproduce via root systems since it has no
flowers of any kind. The long, narrow leaves of this plant
are used in teas and medicine.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d6 leaves
Location: Forests, Savannahs
Uses (3): Potion of Clairvoyance, Tea of Refreshment,
Potion of Vitality, Malice
Muroosa bush
Growing in arid areas in Savannahs and deserts, this bush
seems to be utterly unaffected by heat and the sun no
matter the intensity
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 twigs
Location: Deserts, Savannahs
Uses (1): Muroosa Balm
Nightshade
An inky black flower with purple stalk. It deals 1d4 poison
damage when ingested and, on a failed Constitution
saving throw, inflicts the poisoned condition for 2d4 hours.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d6 flowers
Location: Forests
Uses (3): Potion of Resistance (Necrotic), Basic Posion,
Essence of Ether
14

-- 14 of 24 --

Olisuba Leaf
These dried leaves of the Olisuba tree, when steeped to
make a tea, can help a body recover from strenuous
activity. If you drink a dose of Olisuba tea during a long
rest, your exhaustion level is reduced by 2 instead of 1 at
the end of that long rest.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d6 leaves
Location: Forests, Grasslands
Uses (1): Potion of Vitality
Pixie's Parasol
A tiny mushroom, though with it’s bright blue cap and
white stalk and gills but one hard to miss. At night, they
are downright easy to find due to their bioluminescence.
They are key ingredients in many potions and inks.
Harvesting them may be a hassle, though, since pixies
often defend them from those who wish to take them.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20), Common (DC10) in Feywild
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d12 stalks
Location: fallen logs in non-dry climates
Uses (3): Invisible Ink, Potion of Diminution, Midnight Oil
Red Amanita Mushroom
This red-capped mushroom can grow to the size of a small
dish. It deals 1d4 poison damage when ingested, but can
be used to brew healing potions by a careful herbalist.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 2d4 stalks
Location: Swamps, Forests
Uses (5): Potion of Longevity, Potion of Healing, Potion of
Greater Healing, Potion of Superior Healing, Potion of
Supreme Healing
Rowan Berries
These small clusters of red berries grow on the rowan, a
tree highly revered by druids. They are known for their
purifying properties.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 5)
Quantity: 3d6 clusters
Location: Grasslands, Forests
Uses (3): Potion of Growth, Potion of Resistance (Poison),
Antitoxin
Silverthorn
This thorny vine is a pale silver color, and is hard as metal.
Patches of silverthorn create difficult terrain, and deal 1d6
piercing damage if moved through at normal speed.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 thorns
Location: Arctic, Mountains
Uses (3): Tincture of Werewolf's Bane, Oil of Sharpness,
Potion of Vitality
Singing Nettle
This vine has sharp, stinging hairs covering it. A creature
who touches these hairs must make a Wisdom saving
throw (DC 15) or be overwhelmed by the urge to bellow a
song at the top of their lungs.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 2d4 leaves
Location: Swamps, Mountains, Forests
Uses (3): Potion of Resistance (Thunder), Potion of
Gaseous Form, Potion of Flying
Sourgrass
This green, long-bladed grass has a pungent smell and
flavor. Humanoids who come within 5 feet of uncut
sourgrass must make a successful Constitution saving
throw (DC 10) or become overwhelmed with nausea and
inflicted with the poisoned condition for 30 seconds.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 5)
Quantity: 2d4 clumps
Location: Grasslands, Mountains
Uses (3): Soothing Salve, Potion of Growth, Potion of
Resistance (Radiant)
Theki Root
This thick root tastes bitter but is thought to aid digestive
health. When you use an action to consume a dose, you
gain advantage on saving throws against the effects of
poisonous or toxic substances for 8 hours.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6 Roots
Location: Marshes
Uses (1):
15

-- 15 of 24 --

Willowshade Fruit
A pepper shaped fruit with great digestive aiding
properties.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d8 fruit
Location: Marshes, Coasts, Riversides
Uses (1): Willowshade Oil
Wolfsbane
This white-grey flower blooms only on a full moon and in
high altitudes. Canines who come within 10 feet of
wolfsbane must make a Wisdom save (DC 15) or be forced
to move as far as they can away from the plant.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: Herbalism Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 flowers
Location: Mountains
Uses (2): Tincture of Werewolf's Bane, Oil of Taggit
Inorganic materials
Lightning Struck Metal
A piece of metal struck by metal weighing at least 0,5
Ounces. Coinage struck by lightning is excluded.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Gathering: -------
Quantity: -------
Location: -------
Uses (1): Potion of Invulnerability
Soothsalt Geode
A geode covered in a crystalline substance that can be
extracted into soothsalts.
Rarity: Rare (DC 20), Common (DC 10, only in the
Miskath pit)
Gathering: Pickaxe or Crowbar (DC 10) (no modifier)
Quantity: 1d4 Geodes
Location: Blightshore
Uses (1): Soothsalts
16

-- 16 of 24 --

Harvestable Creature Parts
Noted below are all animals that can be killed to harvest
ingredients
Ankheg
Large monstrosity, unaligned (CR 2)
location: nests beneath fields and forests
Ingredients:
Ankheg Ichor: A creature that comes in contact with this
mucus must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving
throw or be Poisoned for 1 minute. The Poisoned
creature is Paralyzed. The creature can repeat the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC15)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (2): Oil of Sharpness, Midnight Tears
Carrion Crawler
Large monstrosity, unaligned (CR 2)
Location: Caves, sewers, dungeons, forested marshes,
battlefields and cemeteries (anywhere with carrion and
where other carrion eaters cannot move freely)
Ingredients:
Crawler Mucus: A creature that comes in contact with
this mucus must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution
saving throw or be Poisoned for 1 minute. The
Poisoned creature is Paralyzed. The creature can repeat
the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success.
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d4 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (3): Potion of resistance (Acid), Vial of Acid, Oil of
Slipperiness
Drider
Large Monstrosity, Chaotic Evil (CR 6)
Location: Underdark
Ingredient:
Drider Posion
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: Poisoner’s Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6
Creature condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses: Drow Poison
Eagle
Small Beast, unaligned (CR 0)
Location: Coastal, Grassland, Hill, Mountain
Ingredient:
Eagle Claw
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: a Knife (DC 10)
Quantity: 1d8
Creature condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses: Potion of Speed
Elementals
Large elemental, unaligned (CR 5)
Location: Desert and Mountain (Air), Underdark (Earth),
Desert (Fire), Coastal, Swamp and Underwater (Water)
Ingredient:
Respective elemental essence
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: Alchemist’s Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d6
Creature condition: Trade or Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (2/1/1/1): (Air) Smokebomb, Potion of Flying, (Earth)
Potion of Climbing, (Fire) Alchemist’s Fire, (Water) Potion of
Swimming
Ghost
Medium undead, unaligned (CR 4)
Location: Underdark, Urban
Ingredient:
Ectoplasm
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: Alchemist’s kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 flasks
Creature Condition: Unrelated
Uses (2): Potion of Gaseous Form, Oil of Etherealness
Giants
Huge Giants, Varies (CR Varies)
Location: Hills and Forests (Hill), Artic (Frost), Caves
(Stone), Volcanoes and Rocky Mountains (Fire), High
Altitude Mountains (Cloud), Extreme Altitude Mountains
(Storm)
Ingredient:
Giant’s fingernail
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: a knife (DC 10)
Quantity: 7
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated, or trade
Uses (1): Potion of Giant’s Strength
17

-- 17 of 24 --

Giant Poisonous Snake
Medium beast, unaligned (CR 1/4)
Location: desert, forest, grassland, swamp, underdark,
urban
Ingredients:
Serpent’s venom: A creature hit with an attack by a
weapon coated in this venom must succeed on a DC 11
Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 10)
Quantity: 1d3 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (1): Philter of Love
Giant Toad
Large beast, unaligned (CR 1)
Location: coastal, desert, forest, swamp and underdark
Ingredients:
Amphibian Saliva
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (2): Potion of Resistance (Force), Oil of slipperiness
Giant Wolf Spider
Medium Beast, unaligned (CR 1/4)
Location: coastal, desert, forest, grassland, Hill
Ingredients
Giant Wolf Spider Hair
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Harvesting. A knife
Quantity. 1d8
Creature Condition. Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (1). Potion of Climbing
Gray Ooze
Medium Beast, unaligned (CR 1/2)
Location: Underdark
Ingredients
Grey Ooze Residue
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: Alchemist’s Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d4
Creature Condition: Dead
Uses (1): Vial of Acid
Imp
Tiny Fiend (Devil), Lawful evil (CR 1)
Location: Varies
Ingredients
Imp Heart
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: A Knife (DC 15)
Quantity: 1
Creature Condition: Dead
Uses (1): Potion of Longevity
Nothic
Medium Aberration, Neutral Evil (CR 2)
Location: Locations of Magical Learning, Underdark
Ingredients
Nothic Tears: When used as eyedrops provide 1d4
hours of darksight
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: nothing
Quantity: 1d4 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or incapacitated, or trade
Uses (1): Potion of Truesight
Purple Worm
Gargantuan monstrosity, unaligned (CR 15)
Location: desert and Underdark
Ingredients:
Purple Worm Poison: A creature hit with an attack by a
weapon coated in this poison must make a DC 19
Constitution saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) poison
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Rarity: Very Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d8 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (1): Deathsleep
18

-- 18 of 24 --

Quipper
Tiny Beast, Unaligned (CR 0)
Location: Underwater
Ingredients:
Quipper scale
Rarity: Common (DC 10)
Harvesting: a knife (DC 5)
Quantity: 1d4
Creature condition: Dead or incapacitated
Uses (2): Potion of Animal Friendship, Potion of
Swimming
Remorhaz
Large/Huge monstrosity, Unaligned (CR 5/11)
Location: Artic
Ingredients:
Remorhaz Ichor
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: Alchemist’s Kit (DC 20)
Quantity: 1d6, 3d6
Creature condition: Dead or incapacitated
Uses (1): Potion of Firebreath
Skulk
Medium Humanoid, Chaotic Neutral (CR 1/2)
Location: Coastal, Forest, Swamp, Underdark, Urban
Ingredients:
Skulk Claw
Rarity: Uncommon (DC 15)
Harvesting: a knife (DC 10)
Quantity: 1d10
Creature condition: Dead
Uses (1): Potion of Invisibility
True Dragons
Varying Dragon, Varying Alignment (CR Varies)
Location: Varies
Ingredients:
Dragon’s blood
Rarity: Rare (DC 20)
Harvesting: a knife (DC 10) (1/4 of normal Exp.)
Quantity: Xd8 (X depends on size of the dragon) when
Dead or Incapacitated, 1d4 when trading
Creature condition: Dead or Incapacitated, or Trade
Uses (1): Oil of Dragon’s Bane
Wyvern
Gargantuan monstrosity, unaligned (CR 15)
Location: Hills and Mountains
Ingredients:
Wyvern Poison: A creature hit with an attack by a
weapon coated in this poison must make a DC 15
Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Rarity: Rare (DC 18)
Harvesting: Poisoner's Kit (DC 15)
Quantity: 1d8 vials
Creature Condition: Dead or Incapacitated
Uses (1): Oil of Dragon’s Bane
19

-- 19 of 24 --

Environments
A convenient list with all available resources sorted based
on environments
Artic
Frost Lichen (DC 15)
Silverthorn (DC 20)
Remorhaz (DC 20)
Blightshore
Blightshrooms (DC 20)
Coast
Gillyweed (DC 10)
Dreamlilly (DC 10)
Lightning Moss (DC 15)
Willowshade Bush (DC 15)
Moonstalker (DC 20)
Water Elemental (DC 20)
Eagle (DC 15)
Giant Toad (DC 10)
Giant Wolf Spider (DC 10)
Skulk (DC 15)
Desert
Muroosa Bush (DC 15)
Giant Toad (DC 15)
Air Elemental (DC 20)
Purple Worm (DC 20)
Feywild
Pixie's Parasol (DC 10)
Fairy Stool (DC 20)
Forests
Cat's Tongue (DC 10)
Red Amanita Mushroom (DC 10)
Rowan Berry (DC 10)
Morning Dew (DC 10)
Nightshade (DC 15)
Olisuba Bush (DC 15)
Singing Nettle (DC 15)
Death Cap (DC 20)
Fairy Stool (DC 20)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Hagfinger (DC 20)
Giant Poisonous Snake (DC 10)
Giant Wolf Spider (DC 10)
Skulk (DC 15)
Giant Toad (DC 15)
Ankheg (DC 15)
Hill Giant (DC 20)
Grasslands
Cat's Tongue (DC 10)
Dreamlilly (DC 10)
Morning Dew (DC 10)
Olisuba Bush (DC 15)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Rowan Berry (DC 10)
Sourgrass (DC 15)
Giant Poisonous Snake (DC 10)
Giant Wolf Spider (DC 10)
Ankheg (DC 15)
Eagle (DC 15)
Hill
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Eagle (DC 15)
Wyvern (DC 18)
Hill Giant (DC 20)
Mountains
Singing Nettle (DC 15)
Sourgrass (DC 15)
Lightning Moss (DC 15)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Silverthorn (DC 20)
Wolfsbane (DC 20)
Eagle (DC 15)
Wyvern (DC 18)
Air Elemental (DC 20)
Cloud Giant (DC 20)
Fire Giant (DC 20)
Storm Giant (DC 20)
Savannahs
Morning Dew (DC 10)
Muroosa Bush (DC 15)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
20

-- 20 of 24 --

Swamp
Red Amanita Mushroom (DC 10)
Gillyweed (DC 10)
Singing Nettle (DC 15)
Theki Root (DC 15)
Willowshade Bush (DC 15)
Death Cap (DC 20)
Hagfinger (DC 20)
Moonstalker (DC 20)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Giant Poisonous Snake (DC 10)
Carrion Crawler (DC 15)
Giant Toad (DC 15)
Skulk (DC 15)
Water Elemental (DC 20)
Urban areas
Carrion Crawler (DC 15)
Ghost (DC 15)
Giant Poisonous Snake (DC 10)
Nothic (DC 15)
Skulk (DC 15)
Pixie's Parasol (DC 20)
Underdark
Ghost (DC 15)
Giant Poisonous Snake (DC 10)
Giant Toad (DC 15)
Gray Ooze (DC 15)
Nothic (DC 15)
Purple Worm (DC 20)
Skulk (DC 15)
Underground
Mandrake Root (DC 15)
Mindflayer Stinkhorn (DC 15)
Stone Giant (DC 20)
Underwater
Water Elemental (DC 20)
Quipper (DC 10)
Varies
Elementals (DC 20)
Giants (DC 20)
Imp (DC 20)
True Dragons (DC varies)
Volcanos
Ashblossom (DC 20)
Fire Giants (DC 20)
21

-- 21 of 24 --

Potion Making Level System
(Playtest)
If both the player and the DM want to, this Potion Leveling
system can be implemented to allow the player to make
their character progressively better at making potions.
Each time a player identifies or successfully gathers an
ingredient, learns a new recipe or successfully completes a
product a certain amount of Potion Making Exp. is
awarded according to rarity and quantity. The values of
those are depicted in the table below.
EXP. 	Identify Gather Produced Recipe learned
Common 5 	2 	100 	200
Uncommon 10 	8 	300 	1000
Rare 	20 	12 	1000 	2000
Very Rare 	20 	3000 	6000
Legendary 	40
When a player investigates an area, they get a reward
for each herb ingredient Identified, based on rarity. No
Exp. reward is obtained from identifying animals. A player
can only receive Exp. once for identifying an herb in an
area. Subsequent investigation can be performed to find
rarer ingredients, awarding Exp. to the player only for
newly identified ingredients. So, if the player identifies
Gillyweed, Red Aminata Mushrooms and Singing Nettles
during the same investigation, they receive 5 + 5 + 10 = 20
Exp. If the player investigates the area again, rolls higher
and finds Gillyweed, Red Aminata Mushrooms, Singing
nettles, Hagfinger and Moonstalker, the player receives 20
+ 20 = 40 Exp.
Once a player has identified ingredients and successfully
collects them, they get a reward for each unit of that
ingredient acquired, based on rarity. So, if a player
successfully harvests 4 vials of Purple Worm Poison, they
receive 4 * 40 = 160 Exp. The player can also obtained
rewards for learning new recipes and producing potions or
other products, depending on rarity. Recipes can only be
learned once (the recipe learning process is described on
page 1). No Exp. Is awarded to recipes learned via
character leveling.
An Excel spreadsheet with all ingredient rarities is also
available:
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/14KB0KTRPMHxkBGut_D4Mu8OqQBhrIe5V/view?
usp=sharing). This spreadsheet can also be used to
automatically record the players Exp., ingredient stock,
product stock and Potion Making Level. The file is
nonfunctional in Drive, but can be downloaded as a .xlsx
file and works well that way.
Potion making modifier
Once the player has reached a certain Exp. value, they
level up their potion making abilities to a maximum of
level 10. Each level above level 1 provides a cumulative +1
to check made to determine if a potion was made
successfully.
Level 	EXP 	Bonus
Lvl. 1 	0 	0
Lvl. 2 	150 	+1
Lvl. 3 	450 	+2
Lvl. 4 	900 	+3
Lvl. 5 	1500 	+4
Lvl. 6 	2250 	+5
Lvl. 7 	3150 	+6
Lvl. 8 	4200 	+7
Lvl. 9 	5400 	+8
Lvl. 10 	6750 	+9
22

-- 22 of 24 --

Credits
This guide is based on a work-in-progress guide written on
GMbinder by Lyydia. I've added some systems, filled in a
lot of empty spaces and added more items to make as well
as catalogues to make the guide easier to use.
Artwork
Cover: "Alchemist's Satchel" by Tibor Sulyok
Page 2: "Potions" by Unknown
Page 3: "Magical Items" by Unknown
Page 5: "Scrolls" by Unknown
Page 6: "Imp" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 8: "Noctas Monoculas" by Emma Lazauski
Page 9: "Poison Bottle" by Blue Crystal Atelier
Page 11: "Xebiopoda Forciporia" by Emma Lazauski
Page 12: "Gloomflower" by Kobald Press
Page 15: "Violet Fungus" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 16: "Ghor Veles" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 18: "Eagle" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 19: "Pseudodragon" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 20: "Remorhaz" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 21: "Fire Snake" by Wizards of the Coast
Page 23: "Female Human Progenitor Druid" by Wizards
of the Coast

-- 23 of 24 --

This document was lovingly created
using GM Binder.
If you would like to support the GM Binder developers,
consider joining our Patreon community.	WWW.GMBINDER.COM

-- 24 of 24 --

